but wait there is more whilst 25 is
indeed the correct answer to today's
puzzle so very well done if you've got
that there are in fact an infinite
number of correct solutions to the
problem and here I'm going to talk you
through the steps to get all of the
possible numbers which satisfy these
four rules our approach is going to be
very similar to what we've just done but
now we're going to think of things using
more equations and using more algebra so
to start with let's call X the unknown
class size now X this number must
satisfy rules 1 2 4 so our starting
point is going to be to write these
rules in terms of equations now our
first rule says that X must be an odd
number even numbers are defined to be
any number that is perfectly divisible
by 2 and so an odd number is one more
than a multiple of two exactly as we saw
in our problem so what that means is
that X must be equal to a multiple of
two plus one so here this tells us that
we have to have 2k plus 1 for X where K
can be any other positive whole number
we do the same with rule number two we
need something that is one more than a
multiple of three so that means we must
have three times an unknown number L
plus one so very similar to odd numbers
in case number one rule number one but
here we need a multiple of three so it's
three times L where L again is any
positive whole number and then we add
one and I've used L here because this
number L can and probably will be
different to the number K in the first
part continuing in the same way for rule
number three we need one more than a
multiple of four
so you may have figured out the pattern
now that means that X must be able to be
written down as four times something
let's call it M plus one rule number
four very similar except this time there
is no remainder so X is a multiple of
five which means that X is can be
written as five times something
so here it's five times n where n is
going to be another positive whole
number next we start combining some of
these rules so what I'm going to do is
take the first three because they have
this common number of one in their
equations and I'm going to combine them
all to get another equation so we know
from rule number one that X minus one is
equal to a multiple of two so is equal
to 2k for some number K now we can do
the same for rule number two and say
that X minus 1 is also equal to three
times L rule number three say is that X
minus 1 is equal to 4 times M and then
we're going to leave rule number 4 for
now because it doesn't contain this one
and I'm trying to concentrate on X minus
1 and solving for that what this set of
equations is actually telling us is that
X minus 1 which is still a whole number
is divisible exactly by 2 with zero
remainder divisible exactly by three
with zero remainder and divisible by
four with zero remainder so if you think
about this for a moment what does it
mean for a number to be divisible by
several other numbers exactly
so if our number is going to be even and
divisible by two and it's going to be
divisible by three then the number must
be divisible by two times 3 because 2
must be a factor and 3 must also be a
factor and so 2 times 3 gives you 6
so these two combined tell you that our
number must be divisible by six if we
now bring in rule number three the fact
that X minus one is also divisible by
four then perhaps you might be thinking
we must have 2 times 3 is 6 times 4 is
24 so our total number X minus 1 must be
divisible by 24 it has to be a multiple
of 24 now you have to be a little bit
careful here because whilst 2 & 3 are
numbers which do not have any common
factors they are both prime numbers so
one cannot divide the other when we
bring in number 4 4 is actually equal to
2 times 2 so the fact that your number
is already divisible by 2 means you have
some extra information in terms of it
being divisible by 4 so overall
combining all three what you actually
want to do is find the lowest number
which is divisible by 2 3 & 4
so 24 will work 24 divided by 4 is 6
divided by 3 is 8 divided by 2 is 12 so
24 will indeed work but we want the
lowest number which is divisible by 2 3
& 4 and again if you think about this a
little bit
you'll probably get 12 so 12 is in fact
the lowest common multiple of 2 3 & 4 so
it is not quite equal to 2 times 3 times
4 it's equal to 2 times 3 we already
have a 2 so if we write 4 as 2 times 2
we've already got one of those twos so
we only need a further one more 2 to get
6 times 2 is 12 so it's all to do with
factoring numbers as Prime's and this
thing called the lowest common multiple
thinking about things algebraically we
want to again write down an equation
which represents the fact that X minus 1
is divisible by 12 so similar
to what we had over here and what we've
done here we must have that X minus one
is equal to a multiple of 12 so here Y
is again any positive whole number and
this equation must now be satisfied so
the final step is to now think about how
this rule representing rules one two
three combines with rule number four so
we have that X minus 1 is 12 times y and
we know that X must be equal to five
times n for some unknown number and so
if we rearrange this we get that X is 12
y plus 1 and then we need to have this
equal to a multiple of five so this has
to be equal to 5 and to solve this
equation we're going to just check the
first few values of Y and see if we can
spot a pattern so for y equals 0 we get
that X is equal to 1 this needs to be a
multiple of 5 which we can very clearly
and obviously see will not work 1 cannot
be written as 5 times a whole number so
we cannot have y equal to 0 now if y
equals 1 we get 12 plus 1 is 13 again it
is not a multiple of 5 so that also will
not work now when y equals 2 we get that
X is equal to 12 times 2 24 plus 1 is 25
so that will work that is a multiple of
5 so when y is 2 we can find an N N
equals 5 such that this equation is
satisfied and this of course you'll
notice is the smallest answer and the
answer that we found previously when we
just considered the four rules without
doing all of this fancy algebra and
using these equations but of course we
decided to use this method to
find all possible solutions so whilst
it's nice that we got back the same
solution from before we want to keep
going so if we now check the other
possible values of Y we can hopefully
find something else that is a multiple
of five so when y is equal to three we
get 12 times three 36 plus 137 that
won't work
when Y is equal to four we get 48 plus
149 really close but not quite a
multiple of five y equals 5 is going to
give us 61 y equals 6 will give us 73 y
equals 7 will give us 7 times 12 is 84
plus 1 is 85 so we have another solution
so when y is equal to 7 we get that X is
85 and this is of course 5 x 17 so we
now have a second solution the class
which contains ADA could in fact be of
size 85 and it would still satisfy all
of these rules and would be a correct
solution to today's maths puzzle if you
continue to try larger and larger values
of Y we can do exactly as we just did
you can check those values and see which
ones give you a multiple of 5 and
therefore a valid solution this is a
perfectly reasonable way to continue and
generate an infinite number of solutions
now we can be a little bit smarter and
think about what is happening here what
is the pattern now we found the original
solution of 25 occurred when Y was equal
to 2 and then our next possible solution
happened when y was 7 so there's been an
increase in the value of y by 5 now
going back to this equation which I'm
going to highlight in this orange box we
see that our class size is equal to
all times y plus one now when we
increase Y by five up to y equals seven
we are increasing X by 12 times five so
our X our class size increases by 60 so
increasing Y by five increases X by 60
and this gives us another valid solution
because we have a valid solution number
one X is 25 we then add on 60 which is a
multiple of five to get 85 and that
gives us our next solution so if we were
to do the same thing again and add on
five to our value of y we would get that
Y is equal to 12 and plugging these
numbers in which is one way to calculate
this you get 12 times 12 is 144 plus one
is 145 is a valid solution which is
exactly 60 more than the last one we had
and that's because we've increased Y by
5 so x increases by 12 times 5 which is
60 so every time you increase Y by 5 you
increase X by 60 and get another valid
solution and all of the ones in between
so y equals 8 9 10 11 they will all fail
and you can check this yourself because
what we're doing is we're adding on an
amount to our previous solution that is
not a multiple of 5
so overall the final formula to give us
all possible solutions to the class size
problem is equal to 25 plus 60 times Z
where Z here is a non-negative whole
number so Z equals naught gives our
original solution and the correct
solution to today's puzzle which is 8 as
class size is equal to 25 but as we've
just seen we
continue to add multiples of 60 and
generate an infinite possible set of
solutions and each one of those
solutions comes from this formula where
you allow Z to increase from zero one
two three four on and on forever and
ever
thank you very much for watching please
do enjoy the rest of math week and
remember to subscribe to my channel for
more maths fun
you